What are you seeing as far as
companies using pure JavaScript or
frameworks like React, Vue, Angular?
>> I think we would
like your take as well.
So what am I seeing in terms of, are
companies using just pure JavaScript or
what's often called Vanilla JavaScript?
You'll hear that phrase a lot meaning
JavaScript without any kind of
framework like React or Angular or
Vue, or are companies using React or
Angular or Vue or other things,
Felt, what have you?
So personally, I do see a lot of companies
working with frameworks, especially
I would say React is kind of the most
common least seen one in my experience.
And with meta frameworks like Next,
which we mentioned briefly earlier,
that are kind of the goal that
play nicely with React or
that that you can kind
of use React within.
So I would say that React is
a very valuable framework.
If you want to go ahead after you've
kind of got your Vanilla JavaScript
bearings under you, go on and
learn a bit of React.
I think that that is going
to be a valuable skill.
That said, you do still see
plenty of places working with
Vanilla JavaScript, and so
I might ask Mark to chime in
with his take on Vanilla
versus Framework JavaScript.
>> I think this is too
loaded of a question.
But [LAUGH] in general, I think that
learning fundamentals like this,
the course that you just took,
is gonna set you up for
success no matter what path you take.
And it's always great to
learn browser APIs and
how JavaScript works under the hood.
The next course on the Learning Path will
probably be well sentences JavaScript.
The hard part's anytime you're investing
in fundamentals, it makes frameworks and
additional layers that you layer on top
of Vanilla JavaScript like TypeScript or
like React or like Vue or whatever, it
just makes picking up those things easier
because you can see, this part of the code
is React or this part of the code is, or
the syntax is TypeScript etc.
And so, the more you invest in
fundamentals, the better that you're
gonna be able to pick up whatever tools
are in the professional landscape.
So currently,
of course React is the most popular and
TypeScript is being adapted everywhere.
And so, these tools are important if you
want to look great with your resume and
your projects in your portfolio to
get get hired and that kind of thing.
So, in a professional landscape,
I think that React knowledge
is kind of a baseline because
it's just used so many places and
those paradigms and are just used over and
over in new frameworks like Solid,
you mentioned Svelte, and
they all kind of look somewhat similar.
And so, invest in fundamentals and
then layer on these kind of approaches and
then you'll be setting yourself up for
success no matter what tool
you come across in your job.
>> Yes, exactly.
I would agree with that and
I would also say Frameworks even more so
then, we said JavaScript evolves,
JavaScript changes and
Frameworks change even more frequently and
more drastically.
So, who knows what we're all
gonna be using in five years or
ten years in the JavaScript world?
But the fundamentals of JavaScript and
the underlying mental models that
we have of how it works and
how it works with the browser and
other web technologies and
how it conceives of data and
scope in these sort of time,
these sort of kind of high level things.
That is less likely to
change anytime soon.
So, I totally agree,
learning a framework like React,
super useful,
learning a language like TypeScript,
which is sort of on top of JavaScript,
also super useful.
But trying to learn those things before
we really have our sea legs as it were
with JavaScript fundamentals,
Vanilla JavaScript is not gonna be as
valuable as really learning
JavaScript thoroughly and
making sure we're
comfortable with Vanilla.
The frameworks will come and go,
they will change, they will evolve,
they will drastically change the way they
look at things, even React has really kind
of changed how we write React code pretty
drastically in the last few years.
So, those kind of things
are gonna evolve and
the best way that we can stay
adaptable to any of those changes and
remain able to work in whatever new
framework comes along tomorrow,
is to have a really solid
foundation in JavaScript.
So, just as we said, as Mark said.